TERESA: Previously on
Queen of the South...
(speaking Spanish)
You're not
going with your father.
I don't want to be with you!
CAMILA: How many have we lost?
JAMES: All of them.
Camila needs product.
Entonces vamos
a hacer un trato.
About those funds you requested,
I think I may have
a work-around.
Teo was a risk to both of us.
(crying)
Oh, my God.
TERESA: You left me.
Look, Epifanio, he was--
he was on his way to kill me.
They had to do something, okay?
-Who's "they"?
-The DEA.
TERESA: Camila finds out
about the DEA, she'll kill you.
Guero's gonna lead us
to the mother lode. You watch.
(dramatic music)
(serene music)
*
(kisses)
I love you.
(phone buzzing)
(kisses)
Hold on.
Epifanio needs me to do a run.
(breathes deeply)
Screw him.
-(exhales)
-Let's stay in bed all day.
This is Marbella,
in la Costa del Sol
de España.
It's beautiful.
You ever been?
Yeah, I flew a little hash
there once from Morocco.
Never stopped thinking
about this place.
Let's go right now.
(soft laugh)
-Screw Epifanio.
You know how to fly.
Let's go.
That's the plan.
(sighs)
I can't do this forever.
Let's go.
Let's do it.
Let's leave Culiacán.
I'll fly you
anywhere you want to go,
anywhere in the world.
And maybe one day,
we can get ourselves
a little house on the beach.
Just drink cold sangria,
make love all day in the sand.
How's that sound?
As long as I'm with you.
No.
I gots to go.
Stay.
I love you.
I love you too.
Stay.
I can't.
*
Hey, Chino,
we gotta move
that coke fast, man.
You done cutting it yet?
Okay.
(speaking Spanish)
(tires squealing)
(dramatic music)
(tires screech)
LOYA: Get out!
Get out the plane.
Who the hell are you?
Let's go, let's go,
let's go, let's go.
Get in the car.
Move!
*
(explosion)
(tense music)
(cell phone chiming)
*
(phone beeps)
¿Sí?
LOYA: You don't know me, Teresa.
Guero's dead.
Get out of the house now.
(phone beeps)
GUERO: Thank you.
She must be really special.
She is.
(slow country music over radio)
Epifanio blew up your plane
because you were
stealing from him.
Yep.
For us, Teresa.
I did it for us
so we could start over.
Go to Spain
like we talked about?
Drink cold sangria
and make love all day
in the white sand.
That's right.
It was a good plan, wasn't it?
I've been through so much.
(brooding music)
I know.
I saw your bed
at the warehouse.
*
(gentle music)
How can I make this right?
(soft dramatic music)
*
Shit.
LOYA: Miss Mendoza.
I'm Agent Loya.
This is Agent Finnerman.
We're with the DEA.
Hey, I didn't--hey--
-Hey--
-Don't touch me.
(tense music)
This wasn't me.
*
(dramatic music)
(indistinct talking)
(sniffs)
FINNERMAN: He didn't set you
up...
if that's what you're thinking.
We followed him.
In my experience,
men are the weaker sex
when it comes to matters
of the heart.
What do you want?
For you to cooperate in our
investigation of Camila Vargas.
Miss Mendoza,
I know you're a good person
in a bad situation.
And you're going to save me?
Camila Vargas
is a cold-blooded criminal
who uses loyalty
as her currency.
Only way out is with a bullet.
It won't even be her
that pulls the trigger.
I'd wager you've already got
blood on your hands for her.
If I tell you anything,
what happens to me?
To Guero?
FINNERMAN: We'll put you both
in witness protection.
United States government
will keep you safe and sound.
Like you did in Culiacán?
If we didn't have surveillance
on Epifanio Vargas,
your boyfriend would have
been blown to pieces.
The fact is, the DEA
doesn't have
anything concrete on you.
But my buddies over at ICE
would love to toss
your illegal ass back to Mexico.
I wonder how long it'd take
Epifanio to find you.
I'd give you 48 hours.
Understand this:
those people
are not your friends.
And you can't afford
any more enemies.
*
(engine cuts out)
(pensive guitar music)
(gun clicks)
(door opens)
Where you been?
Went to get a few things.
For three hours?
Car overheated.
You springed a leak?
I'm not a mechanic.
Dinner's ready.
What?
Trying to lose a few pounds.
Thanks for the heads up.
I really appreciate you
letting me know about it.
That was a former associate
that works for
the Colombians now.
He just contacted me
to let me know that Epifanio
is meeting with
Reynaldo Fieto.
He's about to flood
the Texas market with product.
And we're just about to get
our Jimenez shipment.
It's not the best timing.
Well, Epifanio took out
all of the lieutenants,
so I don't know
who's moving the product.
But one thing's for certain,
we cannot allow them
to reach Texas.
If we cut off
their transport route,
his distributors will
come crawling back to us.
We just need to confirm
that his tunnel's active.
Well, if it is,
destroy it.
Take Teresa with you
to the border.
(brooding music)
Why?
Leave me in the kitchen
like a pinche vieja?
No.
I'll go instead of her--
I need all my security
at hand for protection.
Teresa,
you'll be less conspicuous
with James.
I thought I was done
with this type of work.
*
Epifanio thinks we're weak.
He's let his guard down.
When you're at war,
it's best to strike your enemy
when he least expects it.
Go now.
*
We got a long drive
ahead of us.
We should get moving.
Thank you, Pote.
Be careful.
I'll start tomorrow.
(knocking on door)
Are you ready?
If the tunnel is still active,
it'll be surrounded
by Epifanio's men.
You know he still
wants to kill me.
You escaped my husband's wrath
since you fled Culiacán.
I have no doubt
your wits will
keep you safe once more.
And if they don't?
We lost everything
and everyone that
meant anything to us.
You mustn't question your value.
We only have each other now.
I'm sorry I doubted you.
And, Teresa,
acuerdate,
(speaking Spanish)
We're the same.
Never forget that.
(tense music)
*
Reynaldo,
(speaking Spanish)
and we have done
very well together.
And you keep getting
more and more handsome,
and I just get older and fatter.
(men chuckle)
(speaking Spanish)
You look
as strong as ever.
Tell that to my wife.
She took me off meat.
I can't have salt.
I can't have sugar.
If she cuts me off
the cerveza,
I'm not gonna have a reason
to wake up in the morning.
I know about wives
trying to take things away.
I have you beat, my friend.
(glasses clink)
Hm.
So you will
understand my reticence.
All this turmoil, open violence,
it's like a lighthouse
for competition.
Don't tell me
you're getting soft.
Hm.
Now you sound like my wife.
-(chuckles)
-(chuckles softly)
My people count on me
to mitigate risks.
How can I be sure my goods
are safe in your hands?
Listen--
Don Reynaldo, forgive me,
but I do believe
you're underestimating
the governor's power
of imagination.
Your product
has never been more safe.
Really?
How is that?
The governor has been relentless
when it comes to
security and innovation.
(speaking Spanish)
This is a toy.
These drones
offer the highest level
of security
for an important businessman
such as yourself.
In fact, they're being
employed for protection
over Governor Vargas'
entire property as we speak.
It shoots 15 photos per second.
And we can control it
from over four miles away.
This... is not a toy.
No.
(soft chuckle)
This is fantastic.
I am happy that you're happy.
-Bueno.
-No, I'm not happy, I'm angry,
thinking about how much
money it's going to cost
to hire a brilliant mind
like this verraco.
(speaking Spanish)
Salud, mi hermano.
Salud.
(muffled pop music,
girls giggling)
Perdón.
(pop music playing)
(photos snapping)
What are you doing?
Sending Lado
a pic of my chichis.
Boys want badass chingonas,
and not some prissy
daddy's girl,
like you.
I gotta look respectable.
I'm a daughter of
a governor now.
Bela, I know you are
excited about the birthday,
but
I'm in a business meeting.
Hello, Olivia.
*
Happy birthday, mi'ja.
Thank you.
-I love it.
-Mm.
Only the best for you,
but, please,
keep the music down, okay?
*
(door shuts)
Does he think you're having tea
with the Queen of England?
(phone buzzes)
(line beeps)
Hi.
Izzy, it's, uh, Mommy.
You know, I know we haven't
talked in a while, but
I was just wondering
what are you doing
for your birthday?
Maybe you can come
visit me some time.
(somber music)
Call me, please.
*
Te quiero.
Te quiero mucho.
*
(footsteps approach,
door opens)
Camila, thank you so much
for coming in the office.
Can I get you something
to drink? A wat--
What's happening with the DEA?
Not much.
Just a couple of
government hacks
sniffing around.
Well, I pay your firm
a hefty amount
to ensure that
my financial matters
are above board.
They are.
Mateo handled the purchase of
your trawler company flawlessly
and attorney-client privilege
protects you and
your present dealings.
Which are?
Well, you're a legitimate
businesswoman in Dallas.
As far as I'm concerned,
any innuendo
that you're involved
in criminal activity,
much less a drug cartel,
is not only absurd,
it's libel-worthy.
Good.
(phone buzzes)
Pardon me,
it's one of my employees.
Yes?
(clears throat)
JAMES: We're walking
to the tunnel now.
I ditched the car
a couple miles out in case
they set up a perimeter.
But I'm losing cell signal.
Well, let me know
when that's taken care of.
We should pick up the pace.
There's a lot of trouble
we could face out here.
Border Patrol,
militiamen, coyotes,
real coyotes.
(suspenseful music)
JAMES: There it is.
It looks deserted.
*
-Tunnel?
-Yeah.
It's under the van.
Is it active?
There's only one way
to find out.
*
(grunts)
All right.
I'll wait for you here.
No, come.
(brooding suspense music)
*
(rustling)
(muffled men's laughter)
(indistinct talking)
(suspenseful music)
*
(wind whooshing)
(metal creaking)
(metal clanks)
(men shouting indistinctly)
(clanks metal)
(indistinct chatter)
(grunting)
Alto.
(gun fires)
(gunshots)
(dramatic suspense music)
*
(indistinct talking)
They're not just cartel guys.
How do you know that?
That search,
it's sharp and efficient.
And their weapons
are military issue.
Epifanio has the Mexican army
working for him.
(screams)
(pained yelping)
(pained groans)
Shh. Keep your voice down.
Just take deep breaths.
You're gonna be okay.
You're gonna be fine.
I'm gonna splint your leg.
I don't want
the poison to spread.
All right.
(breathing heavily)
Okay.
How do you know this?
It's military.
I had combat first-aid training.
(breathing heavily)
(grunts)
(soft suspense music)
*
We need to get you to the car.
Get up.
Put your arm around me. Come on.
Yeah, I know, I'm sorry.
I have an important meeting.
I can't leave.
All right.
Bye.
All right,
I'll talk to you later.
All right.
Bye.
I am so sorry.
My wife was not happy
I cancelled lunch.
Please, have a seat.
Thank you for meeting with us.
Well, when I heard
the, uh, DEA
was joining the investigation
into Teo's suicide--
Cause of death is
yet to be determined.
Well, I don't
mean to speak ill of the dead,
but Teo was screwing the help.
Jailbait, no less.
Tell you that himself?
Teo asked for my advice.
I told him
get his house in order.
That boy was a hot mess.
I mean, I'm not surprised
that he decided
it was time to meet his maker.
What can you tell us about
his work for Camila Vargas?
Well, I was concerned,
given Teo's lack of judgment
and Epifanio Vargas' reputation,
that something may have been
done to jeopardize my firm.
By "something," you mean one of
your attorneys facilitating
the sale and distribution
of illegal substances?
Camila Vargas,
as far as I know,
is an upstanding businesswoman.
Then you won't mind if we
take a look at her files.
(exhales) You--you'd
need a warrant for that.
But in light of Teo's passing,
I'd like to be transparent
with your agency.
Here are the files
for your review.
Ready to roll.
Like you read my mind.
Well, if there's nothing else,
I have a meeting in five.
Sir,
I appreciate your help.
Anything for the government.
(soft suspenseful music)
*
Oh, damn it.
Still no service.
You should just leave me behind
and get back to the truck.
No, I can't leave you.
You're burning up.
I really need to lay down.
(both grunting softly)
Drink something.
Drink.
I'm out of water.
Shit.
Squeeze it.
(sucking)
(engine rumbling approaches)
Stay down.
Don't move.
(engine revving)
We've gotta keep moving.
Why am I here?
Camila asked us
to find the tunnel, remember?
(engine revving)
Shit.
(dramatic music)
*
We're running out
of options here.
The truck is
just over that ridge.
Drive until you
get cell service.
TERESA: Okay.
You're gonna make it.
Say it.
I'm gonna make it.
What are you doing?
-Giving you a head start.
-What?
James, no.
(gun firing)
(bullets ricocheting)
(intense dramatic music)
(brakes squeal)
MAN: Drop your weapon!
Drop it!
Put the gun down!
Hands behind your head!
(suspenseful music)
Where's the girl
who was with you?
What girl?
(Taser clicks)
*
(distant indistinct talking)
(voice echoing)
Hey.
Wake up, asshole.
(strained breathing)
(soft tense music)
(soft grunt)
*
David Lee Autrey?
My ass.
You're just some pinche puto.
Is that what they call you
down in Mexico?
Who the hell are you?
You're in the custody
of the Texas Patriot Squad,
civilian militia,
protecting our
freedom and borders.
You shot at me and my men.
So tell me why
I shouldn't put a bullet...
(gun cocks)
in your head right now?
*
(erratic ambient music)
(breathing heavily)
*
(exhales)
Miss Mendoza.
You followed me here?
You didn't think we'd
let you go just like that?
(brooding music)
What happened to you there?
*
(inhales sharply)
Oh.
Nasty bite.
Main road's just up ahead.
Let me get you to a hospital.
I'm so tired.
Like I said, you're a
good person in a bad situation.
Come with me, this all ends.
Take my hand.
(dramatic music pounds)
(snake hissing, rattling)
(panicked breathing)
(thud echoes)
(breathing heavily)
Snakes eat rats.
Only you can save yourself.
Get in the truck, Teresa.
(intense electronic music)
*
(engine turns over)
Those ridiculous drones,
why wasn't I told about them?
Forgive me, Governor,
but I didn't
want to bother you
with the technical details.
You're spying on me.
Everything we do
is for your protection.
But if the drones displease you,
I'll stop deploying them
immediately.
Can they move cargo?
We'd have to get bigger drones.
If they can work as spies,
they can also work as mules.
An inspired idea.
I'll look into it.
(phone buzzes)
¿Bueno?
(soft dramatic music)
Gracias, Comandante.
(speaking Spanish)
What's wrong?
It appears we have
a breach at the tunnel.
Why are you still standing here?
Go.
*
(throbbing suspense music)
You were in the service, right?
27th Engineer Battalion
out of Fort Bragg.
I was 1st Cav.
Help a soldier out
and untie me.
I'm a US citizen
and a vet.
You know what I think?
You're a coyote.
Am I right?
And that girl you were with,
you sex-trafficking her?
Hey!
Did you drug that girl?
Is she out there dying?
-Huh?
CARL: Hey!
What are you doing?
I told you
to call Border Patrol.
He shot at us, Carl.
And he's smuggling women
into the country.
Did he confess to that?
No, says he's ex-army.
I say he's a lying sack of shit.
(dogs barking)
(engine rumbling approaches)
MAN: Stop that car!
(dog barking)
(gun cocks)
(tense music)
(breathing heavily)
*
Get out of the truck.
Keep your hands
where I can see them.
I need to speak
to who's in charge.
-Please?
-You looking for your coyote?
-That's enough, Pete.
-(indistinct)
That's enough.
Let's just get her to the tent.
Anything happens to
this woman in our camp,
the Feds will
shut us down for good.
-Stand down.
-(grunts)
(liquid pours)
That's a serious mustache.
He's very intimidating.
I choose to surround myself
with strong people.
Hm.
You backed down the DEA.
You mitigated
my risk with Teo.
These kind of favors
don't come for free.
Well, you pay my firm
a hefty commission.
-Oh, yes, I know.
-Hm.
You're one of
the richest men in Texas.
It isn't cash you're after.
What do you want from me?
My family
made their money in oil.
We moved in the highest
society circles in Texas
and wanted for nothing.
(soft dramatic music)
But the day it ran out,
it took some time for my dad
to drink and gamble his way
through the assets we had left.
He ended up dying
destitute on the street.
(swallows)
So I cultivated
the friendships of my youth.
I may not have had much,
but I had powerful friends
and plenty of them.
And eventually,
I was back on top.
The difference was
there's no way in hell
I'm ever gonna let anyone
take that away from me again.
*
To powerful friends.
(glasses clink)
You got some real bad luck here.
(pained groan)
We usually don't see
bark scorpions around here.
That antihistamine
should be kicking in.
How are you feeling?
Better.
Thank you.
Where's my friend?
"Friend"
gives you fake passports?
When you're up and walking,
I'm gonna have to
call Border Patrol,
turn you in to custody.
(soft brooding music)
You started this group
to protect your county?
Something like that.
We have a common enemy.
(soft chuckle)
That's hard to believe, honey.
I used to work for a cartel.
They forced me to be a mule.
When I tried to escape,
they killed my entire family.
*
We can help each other.
You got my attention.
Go on.
There's a tunnel at the border.
That's why we're here.
We were doing surveillance.
I can take you there right now.
*
You can tell the Border Patrol
all about the tunnel.
You know the cartels
control everyone,
even the Border Patrol.
There's another way.
This whole country's
getting soft.
You can barely touch a girl
without some feminazi
whining about harassment.
Now I got Carl giving me crap
about manhandling some bitch.
Yeah, what bitch would that be?
Your piece of ass.
She got mouthy, and
I was just about to shut her up.
You think that
makes you a tough guy,
putting your hands on women?
You're just a fucking coward.
(brooding music)
What'd you say to me?
-(blow lands)
-(grunts)
*
Oh, you're dead, bitch.
Pete!
Knock it off!
God damn it!
Back off!
Cut him loose.
Now.
What's going on, Carl?
Cut him loose right now.
(tense music)
*
Hey, hey, hey!
Back off, back off.
Just cool it.
Move it!
*
-Are you okay?
-I thought I told you to go.
I'm not leaving you.
Come on.
-How the hell did you find me?
-Followed the tire tracks.
You needed an army?
I got us one.
TERESA: The tunnel is under
the van on the left.
Damn.
You weren't lying.
Coke comes from Mexico
through the tunnel
and then the vans
take it to Dallas.
God damn.
Not gonna happen today.
We have explosives.
If you're thinking
what I'm thinking, darling,
I love the way you think.
Let's blow up the tunnel.
You need papers?
'Cause I'm single.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
CARL: Hey, vans are moving.
Pete, you, me, and the boys
will stop the vans.
Teresa, you get to
blow up the tunnel.
(dramatic music)
*
(engine revving)
(engine roars)
Chingada.
Los siguien.
(indistinct shouting)
(shouting Spanish)
We're almost at the tunnel.
Get the bomb ready.
(switch clicks)
It's armed.
(engine revving)
(gunfire)
(bullets ricocheting)
(gunshots)
(engine revving)
(gunshot)
*
(tires screech)
(brakes squeal)
Get out of the van!
Get out of the van, asshole!
Get out of the van.
Now.
(dramatic electronic music)
*
(tense music)
(button beeps)
(explosion)
(van crashes)
*
(rumbling)
Vamanos!
(explosion rumbles,
soldier screams)
*
(coughing)
(shouting Spanish)
Vamanos.
*
(line trilling)
WOMAN: 911,
what's your emergency?
Hey, yeah, yo,
they just shot a cop.
Some dude with an AK,
he just shot a cop.
He's running around crazy,
pointing the gun at everybody.
WOMAN: What's your location?
It's, uh, Walnut Hill.
Next to the, uh,
you know the Black Star Liquor?
WOMAN: We're sending
someone now.
Yeah, yeah, hurry.
This guy, he--he's nuts.
(phone beeps, snaps shut)
(radio beeps)
MAN: All units be advised.
Officer down and shooter on foot
in vicinity of Black Star Liquor
in Walnut Hill Lane.
Shit.
That's right around the corner.
We should respond.
(engine turns over)
We can't leave our post.
An officer is down.
(gear shifts)
(car beeping)
I'll call someone to cover.
(sirens wailing)
(tires squeal)
(soft dramatic music)
*
Nothing here, man.
Van Awken's either straight
or he's smart enough to clean
Teo's mess after him.
(cell phone rings)
It's death by a thousand
paper cuts and he knows it.
(cell phone ringing)
Finnerman.
Shooting.
Where?
No, you get your ass
back to that motel now.
(dramatic music pounds)
*
(knocking on door)
Shit!
(soft dramatic music)
Postak and Felix
just lost eyes on Guero.
*
Weaselly prick.
One guess
who he's going to see.
(sighs)
(tsks) Can't say I blame him.
GUERO: Just don't
make a decision
about the DEA
till we talk, okay?
Please?
I love you.
(beeps)
How's the leg?
I'll survive.
Good.
Carl gave me his number.
Should I call him?
Eh.
I'd hold off.
Play hard to get.
(tender music)
Look, you shouldn't have
come back for me.
It was stupid.
You could have been killed.
But you didn't leave me behind,
and I won't forget it.
*
-Gracias.
(indistinct chatter)
(delicate music playing)
*
Keep an eye on that
little hurricane.
Two drinks maximum.
Hola.
¿Como estás?
Bien.
*
Hola.
The tunnel's gone.
An explosion.
We lost three men.
I don't care about your men.
Who did it?
(tense music)
We captured this image
off of one of
the surveillance drones.
Teresa.
That's unacceptable.
They are making me
look like a fool.
You assured me that
Don Reynaldo's product
would be protected.
Now, you had one job, Colonel,
and you failed miserably.
(clapping)
(applause)
*
Your daughter looks beautiful.
Moctezuma had a daughter
with the name Isabela.
When her father was killed,
Cortés, the conquistador,
took her in as his own
and gave her
a land,
a new religion,
a new name.
Who exactly do you think
you're talking to?
Do you think you are
the only killer in this place?
If you say my daughter's
name again,
I will carve it into your skull.
Now,
go and fix your mess.
(indistinct chatter)
Please.
Bela, you look wonderful.
That dress and those shoes,
aren't they
a little too grown-up?
Mom sent me the shoes
and I love them.
More than the pearls?
I love the pearls.
This isn't a competition, papi.
Okay.
A toast to my daughter!
I love you more
than life itself.
Happy birthday...
(kisses)
mi'ja.
Feliz cumpleaños.
ALL: Feliz cumpleaños.
(clapping)
(brooding electronic music)
*
I asked Pote
to look at your car
to see why it was overheating.
(suspenseful music)
*
See, if you're going to
represent this business,
you should be driving something
more...
reliable.
(clicks)
Come.
*
I purchased it for Isabela.
I don't think I'm gonna be
seeing my daughter anytime soon.
I'm sorry.
It's temporary.
I was impressed
with what you did today.
You manipulated
a pack of rabid dogs
into doing our bidding.
This car
is a symbol of my trust.
(gentle music)
*
I'm giving you your freedom.
Don't make me regret it.
I checked the car
for GPS trackers.
It's clean,
for now.
There's an old saying.
The fish only sees the bait,
never the hook.
I know you lied to me about
your car overheating, Teresita.
Whatever you're hiding
better be worth it.
(gentle music)
*
(engine turns over)
Wasn't quite sure if you'd show.
I won't turn on Camila.
(pensive music)
All right, then screw it.
Screw 'em all, let's just
get the hell out of here.
I'm not gonna run away with you.
One day we'll
be sitting on a beach
and someone's gonna
walk up to us
and gonna put two bullets
into our heads.
We can't run anymore.
You know that.
So what now?
Everything in our life
was always on your terms.
That's over now.
If you want to be with me,
you need to prove
you're not with the DEA.
Convince Camila
you're on her side,
part of her family.
I had to make a choice.
Now you need to make yours.
*
(quiet dramatic music)
(typewriter clacking)
(bell dings)
Captioned by CaptionMax.